Supplemental Material
These files accompany the article "Conformally curved binary black hole initial
data including tidal deformations and outgoing radiation" by Nathan K.
Johnson-McDaniel, Nicolas Yunes, Wolfgang Tichy, and Benjamin J. Owen,
published in Phys. Rev. D.

This deposit contains 17 files, all of which are gzipped tarballs (suffix
.tar.gz), except for the present plain text file (README.TXT). The gzipped
tarballs consist of four different versions of the data, designated by VERSION
= (O4_NoOct, O4, 05, all) in the filename (this nomenclature corresponds to
that given in Table II of the paper). For each of these versions, one archive
contains the C code that outputs the data numerically (in the form of a
4-metric). The three other archives (for a given version) contain three
different forms of the Maple scripts that we used to generate the C code. We
provide the scripts in these different forms for compatability purposes.

* C-VERSION.tar.gz contains 12 files giving the C code for a given version,
presented as 10 C files (suffix .c), listed below (and discussed further
below), along with a C header file (VERSION.h) and a Makefile.

main.c
VERSION_h2PNDm_Fullg.c
VERSION_h2PNDm_FZgab.c
VERSION_h2PNDm_IZ2gab.c
VERSION_h2PNDm_IZgab.c
VERSION_h2PNDm_Jacobian.c
VERSION_h2PNDm_NZgab.c
VERSION_h2PNDm_prematchIZgab.c
VERSION_h2PNDm_Transformation.c
VERSION_h2PNDm_TransFunc.c

* MapleFORMAT-VERSION.tar.gz contains three files, viz., the Maple scripts that
generate the C code in the three zones (discussed in Sec. II and Appendix D
of the paper), saved in a format given by FORMAT = (12, Classic, Text).

- FORMAT = 12 corresponds to files saved in Maple 12 format (suffix .mw),
which should be readable with Maple versions at least as low as 9.

- FORMAT = Classic corresponds to files saved in Maple's "Classic" format
(suffix .mws), which should be readable by older Maple versions.

- FORMAT = Text corresponds to files saved as plain text (suffix .txt). These
files can be read without Maple and were generated at the request of
certain users.

The Maple scripts' names are given by VERSION_ZONE_Cgen.SUFFIX, where ZONE =
(IZ, NZ, FZ) and SUFFIX = (mw, mws, txt). For ZONE = (NZ, FZ), the scripts
output the files VERSION_h2PNDm_ZONEgab.c. These are C codes that output the
values of the near and far zone metrics. For ZONE = IZ, the scripts still
generate the C codes that are used to output the inner zone metric around hole
1, but the procedure is a bit more complicated and not fully automated:

- First the untransformed metric is produced in C-code and output to
VERSION_h2PNDm_prematchIZgab.c.

- Next the coordinate/parameter transformation is C-generated and output to
VERSION_h2PNDm_Transformation.c, while the Jacobian of the transformation is
C-generated and output to VERSION_h2PNDm_Jacobian.c.

- The transformed metric is then put together by combining the untransformed
metric with the Jacobian. This is done in a C-file that is not generated by
the Maple script provided and is named VERSION_h2PNDm_IZgab.c

N.B.: In order to run the inner and far zone scripts, one needs to have
GRTensor II installed: We used version 1.79. (It is possible that GRTensor II
will not be compatible with Maple versions greater than 12.) Also, there is
some redundancy between the O4 and O4_NoOct versions: The near and far zone
scripts and codes in those two versions are identical, except for trivial
changes of names (of the files themselves, along with the scripts' outputs'
filenames and the C codes' variables). (The near zone C codes appear to differ
more substantially, but this is merely due to differences in how Maple
performed the C-generation in the two cases.)

The C files that output the values of the metric (VERSION_h2PNDm_ZONEgab.c)
take as input four coordinates (t, x, y, z) and the three parameters of the
binary, viz., the point particle masses m1 and m2, and the initial coordinate
separation b. They return a real number, the value of the metric at (t, x, y,
z) for the system (m1, m2, b).

We have also included some additional C files that are not output by the
scripts: The main.c file outputs all metric components at some specified point
for a particular test system, as well as the determinant of the metric in each
zone and the determinant of the merged metric. This merged metric is computed
using transition functions that stitch the different zones' metrics together
into a single global metric. The choices we have made for these functions
(along with some general restrictions on these functions necessary for
successful stitching) are described in Sec. VIII B of the paper and coded in
VERSION_h2PNDm_TransFunc.c (even though there is an order flag, all transition
functions are the same). The merged metric is computed in
VERSION_h2PNDm_Fullg.c following the prescription of Sec. VIII B. This uses the
ancillary C file VERSION_h2PNDm_IZ2gab.c to compute the inner zone metric
around hole 2 using the procedure given at the beginning of Sec. V A.

N.B.: Even though the C-generation Maple scripts should provide all the
ingredients necessary to generate C-files, these scripts have not been
completely automated. In particular, in addition to the files that have to be
generated by hand (to put together the transformed inner zone metric and merged
metric), one might find it necessary to declare internal functions at the top
of some of these files for compilation to be successful. All of these internal
declarations have been performed in the C-files we provide. Thus, these C-files
also serve as templates to see which additional declarations need to be made
manually.

Although the C-files have been checked to compile and return numerical values
identical to those generated by the Maple scripts, these C-files are not
sufficient to complete the initial data prescription described in the
accompanying paper. One has to compute the extrinsic curvature (or,
alternatively, the time-derivative of the metric) numerically by finite
differencing in some time slab close to zero (we remind the reader that the
data are valid in a time slab of width T << b). One can either compute these
directly from the merged 4-metric, or compute them from the individual
4-metrics and then merge them using the transition functions. The latter is
what was done to generate the data plotted in the paper. These two methods
generate different initial data, in general, and it is not clear a priori which
is preferable.

The primary correspondent for the scripts and codes (to whom all questions and
comments should be directed) is Nico Yunes <nyunes@princeton.edu>. The
secondary correspondent (who should be cc'd on all correspondence to the
primary correspondent) is Nathan Johnson-McDaniel <nathanjm@gravity.psu.edu>.

Special Instructions
none

CONTACT INFORMATION:

Dr. Nathan Kieran Johnson-McDaniel
The Pennsylvania State University
104 Davey Lab, No. 153
University Park, PA 16802-6300
Phone: 1+814-865-3201
Fax:
Email: nathanjm@gravity.psu.edu
